[Music]
aha that new phone thrill look I tap an
app and it opens immediately yet just a
few months later you notice what was
once the sports car of phones is now
crawling like an old clunker why does
that happen
and how can you speed yours up it might
not seem like you have much in common
with your phone but tell me this what
helps you work at your best we'll take
my friends Jim and Joe as examples Jim
here got enough sleep last night and
he's just had a nice hearty lunch and a
cup of coffee it's still early in the
day and the boss has only given him one
task to focus on for now Jim's pretty
lucky too he's got a brand-new computer
his workspace is comfortable and tidy
and it's not too hot or too cold in the
room then there's Joe he didn't get much
shut-eye last night
the wife swears he doesn't snore but
tell that to Joe's eye bags he had to
skip lunch because he can't keep up with
all the work the boss is piling on him
and this slow as molasses computer isn't
making it any easier his desk is a mess
his back is already aching because of
that busted office chair and the room is
boiling hot obviously Jim's gonna have
an easier time being productive Joe not
so much and that's why your phone slows
down it'll struggle when it has too many
apps installed and running in the
background there's hardly any storage
space on it it's overworked and
overheated your operating system is
out-of-date and your battery deserves a
happy retirement it can also just be a
matter of perception when you see an ad
for a newer model and think of yours as
something outdated and slow there can be
some other reasons like viruses and
other malware but for now let's see what
you can do to speed your phone up number
one let's give it a restart as simple as
it sounds
sometimes just restarting your phone is
all it needs to kick it into high gear
the reason for its snail's pace is often
a misbehaving app turning the gadget off
and on again will clear out the memory
and tame those disruptive programs if
your device has frozen up and doesn't
want to restart the right way you might
have to force shut down for Androids you
can even try going radical and just
remove the back cover and the battery
and put them back in after a few moments
update your phone keeping your operating
system up-to-date is good for your
gadget because updates include the
latest security patches and fixes for
some common issues a newer OS also knows
how to manage the battery better you can
turn on automatic software updates in
your settings or check them for updates
every now and then this trick won't
always make things better for certain
phones the hardware for an iPhone 5 for
instance won't be able to handle updates
4 and 11 because it doesn't have the
same power in memory keep that in mind
if you have an older model free up some
space your phone needs at least 10
percent of available storage free to be
able to function correctly you can see
how much storage you have in which
folders or apps are eating the most
memory in your settings but even before
you check it I can tell you it's
probably photos videos and music so sort
out your stuff you don't really need 36
pictures of a plane wing from your
latest vacation do you if you do at
least keep them in cloud storage or
import them to your laptop the same goes
for music and messages find threads with
the most photos or videos and delete
them or just delete the files you don't
need in those conversations sort your
apps most phones come with bloatware
apps that are pre-installed and useless
if we're being honest sometimes you can
also install apps to get a discount at a
store or just to try it out find the
list of all your apps in the settings go
through them and if you see something
you never use or didn't even know
existed try deleting it if you can't
decide which apps to get rid of also
look at how much space they're taking up
and say goodbye to the heaviest of them
first some of them are designed for the
latest hardware and if you have an older
phone they gum it up try lightweight
versions of apps if you just can't say
good riddance to some bulky apps at
least we're
place them with lighter versions most
social networking apps do have a version
with a tiny footprint that still lets
you check your news feed comment on
friends posts and share your own turn
down the graphics an ambient display
keeps you up to date with all the
important notifications and you don't
even have to unlock your phone to see
them but it eats up your battery life
and you know what it does your phone
speed already you can reduce motion and
transparency of background effects in
your settings changing from alive to a
static wallpaper is also your best bet
clear your cache your built-in browser
keeps a cache of the webpages you visit
with cookies login information and other
data to help you navigate through them
easier but when the cache is too full
your phone slows down if you have an
iPhone go to settings passwords and
accounts Safari and click clear history
and website data for Android depending
on what browser you have open the menu
in your browser app tap settings privacy
and security clear browsing data or
cache before you do it make sure you
know all the passwords you've typed in
on different sites and remember any URLs
you need turn bluetooth on only when you
need it
hey use your Bluetooth on right now is
it connected to anything
if not then turn it on it's a real drag
for your phone disable automatic
background processes iOS 13 has a low
data mode that doesn't let apps update
or download any data including emails in
the background you can turn this mode on
in settings cellular cellular data
options if you have an older iOS you
should turn off background app refresh
in the settings you'll also need to go
to iTunes and App Store and switch off
music apps and updates in the automatic
download sections on most androids
you can uncheck auto sync data in
settings data usage replace the battery
the older your phone battery gets the
more likely it is to shut down
unexpectedly even when it was charged
well enough this can even have
and when your phone is just a year old
after a couple years most batteries
passed their peak performance capability
you can check how yours is doing in
settings battery battery health if you
have an iPhone if it says something like
significantly degraded it's a good time
to get a replacement androids don't have
building apps to check the battery's
condition but there are downloadable
ones that do the trick
restore to factory settings this is the
most radical of all steps but if all
else fails
you've always got this option resetting
your phone deletes all the apps and data
you have on it so make sure you back it
up on cloud storage or a computer before
you wipe it clean if you have an iPhone
you can do it in Settings General reset
erase all content and settings it'll ask
you for your passcode to confirm the
operation when it's done you can restore
important data from your backup on an
Android it'll be in settings backup and
reset factory data reset when it's done
choose to restart the phone and finally
if none of that helps you can take your
phone back to where you bought it and
let them check if it's a hardware issue
they might even be able to replace it
under warranty hey if you learn
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life